per-index binlog (#2390)
manticoresoftware/manticoresearch: manual/Logging/Binary_logging.md

You can use the following directive to set a custom path:

<!-- request Example -->
```ini
searchd {
...
    binlog_path = /var/data
...
```
<!-- end -->

### Per-table binary logging configuration

<!-- Example binlog0 -->
For more granular control, binary logging can be disabled at the table level for real-time tables by setting the `binlog` table parameter to `0`. This option is not available for percolate tables.

<!-- request Example -->
```sql
create table a (id bigint, s string attribute) binlog='0';
```
<!-- end -->

<!-- Example binlog_alter -->
For existing RT tables, binary logging can also be disabled by modifying the `binlog` parameter.

<!-- request Example -->
```sql
alter table FOO binlog='0';
```
<!-- end -->

<!-- Example binlog_alter2 -->
If binary logging was previously disabled, it can be re-enabled by setting the `binlog` parameter back to `1`:

<!-- request Example -->
```sql
alter table FOO binlog='1';
```
<!-- end -->

#### Important considerations:
* **Dependency on global settings**: per-table binary logging settings only take effect if binary logging is globally enabled in the searchd configuration (`binlog_path` must not be empty).

> * **Forced flushing and transaction ID reset**: Modifying the binary logging status of a table forces an immediate [flush of the table](../Securing_and_compacting_a_table/Flushing_RAM_chunk_to_disk.md#FLUSH-TABLE). This operation resets the table's transaction ID to `-1` and updates the table's metadata to reflect this change.

Reviewer: TODO: Add that transaction ID can be seen in SHOW TABLE STATUS.

> * **Forced flushing and transaction ID reset**: Modifying the binary logging status of a table forces an immediate [flush of the table](../Securing_and_compacting_a_table/Flushing_RAM_chunk_to_disk.md#FLUSH-TABLE). This operation resets the table's transaction ID to `-1` and updates the table's metadata to reflect this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Binary logging status and transaction ID insights**: Modifying the binary logging status of a table forces an immediate [flush of the table](../Securing_and_compacting_a_table/Flushing_RAM_chunk_to_disk.md#FLUSH-TABLE). If you turn off binary logging for a table, its transaction ID (TID) changes to `-1`. This indicates that binary logging is not active, and no changes are being tracked. Conversely, if you start binary logging for a table, its transaction ID becomes a non-negative number (zero or higher). This indicates that the table's changes are now being recorded. You can check the transaction ID by using the command: `SHOW TABLE <name> STATUS`. The transaction ID reflects whether changes to the table are being recorded (non-negative number) or not (`-1`).
```

## Operations

When binary logging is turned on, every change made to an RT table is saved to a log file. If the system shuts down unexpectedly, these logs are used automatically when the system starts again to bring back all the changes that were logged.

### Log size

<!-- Example binlog_max_log_size -->
During normal operations, when the amount of data logged reaches a certain limit (set by `binlog_max_log_size`), a new log file starts. Old log files are kept until all changes in them are completely processed and saved to disk as a disk chunk. If this limit is set to `0`, the log files are kept until the system is properly shut down. By default, there's no limit to how large these files can grow.

<!-- request Example -->

```ini
searchd {
...
    binlog_max_log_size = 16M
....
```

<!-- end -->

### Log files

<!-- example binlog_filename_digits -->

> Each binlog file is named with a zero-padded number, like `binlog.0000`, `binlog.0001`, etc., typically showing four digits. You can change how many digits the number has with the setting `binlog_filename_digits`.

Reviewer: What happens if the number of binlog files is greater than the maximum number?

Reviewer: @klirichek 's reply is:

```
	fprintf ( stdout, "long num: %04d\n", 1 );
	fprintf ( stdout, "long num: %04d\n", 10 );
	fprintf ( stdout, "long num: %04d\n", 100 );
	fprintf ( stdout, "long num: %04d\n", 1000 );
	fprintf ( stdout, "long num: %04d\n", 10000 );
	fprintf ( stdout, "long num: %04d\n", 100000 );
	fprintf ( stdout, "long num: %04d\n", 1000000 );
```

```
long num: 0001
long num: 0010
long num: 0100
long num: 1000
long num: 10000
long num: 100000
long num: 1000000
```

Reviewer: Update the docs accordingly.

> Each binlog file is named with a zero-padded number, like `binlog.0000`, `binlog.0001`, etc., typically showing four digits. You can change how many digits the number has with the setting `binlog_filename_digits`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each binlog file is named with a zero-padded number, like `binlog.0000`, `binlog.0001`, etc., typically showing four digits. You can change how many digits the number has with the setting `binlog_filename_digits`. If you have more binlog files than the number of digits can accommodate, the number of digits will be automatically increased to fit all files.
```

binlog_max_log_size = 16M
```

### Log files

Each binlog file has a name, as binlog.NNNN, where NNNN is a number, zero padded. By default, it is 4 digits, so binlog files are named like 'binlog.0000', 'binlog.0001', etc. If desired, number of digits can be set with `binlog_filename_digits` directive:

```ini
binlog_filename_digits = 6
```

Notice, you need to abandon your binlog before change the value; otherwise actual one will be taken from existing binlog meta. So, if you want to change, N of digits, say, to 6 - after you put your value to config, you need to flush all your tables; than perform clean shutdown of the daemon; than manually drop all binlog.* files and restart the daemon.

### Binary logging strategies

There are 2 different binlog strategies, controlled by `binlog_common` directive:

* 0 - Provide separate binlog file for each table. That is default value.
* 1 - Provide one single binlog for all the tables. Only one single files is opened for binlogging all the tables.

```ini
binlog_common = 1
```

> If directive `binlog_common` is absent, default value is taken from env variable `MANTICORE_BINLOG_COMMON`. If that variable is also absent/not set, default value is 0, i.e. 'provide separate binlog files for each table'.

Reviewer: I'm going to remove this since I don't understand why it's important in this case, but not for all the other searchd settings. If there's a special reason to keep it in the docs, pls let me know.
